Let's start talking about
logistic regression.
In this video, I'd like to show
you the hypothesis representation.
That is, what is the function we're
going to use to represent our hypothesis
when we have a classification problem?
Earlier, we said that we
would like our classifier
to output values that are between 0 and 1.
So we'd like to come up with a hypothesis
that satisfies this property, that is,
predictions are maybe between 0 and 1.
When we were using linear regression,
this was the form of a hypothesis,
where h(x) is theta transpose x.
For logistic regression,
I'm going to modify this a little bit and
make the hypothesis g
of theta transpose x.
Where I'm going to define
the function g as follows.
G(z), z is a real number, is equal to
one over one plus e to the negative z.
This is called the sigmoid function,
or the logistic function,
and the term logistic function,
that's what gives rise to
the name logistic regression.
And by the way,
the terms sigmoid function and
logistic function are basically
synonyms and mean the same thing.
So the two terms are basically
interchangeable, and
either term can be used to
refer to this function g.
And if we take these two equations and
put them together,
then here's just an alternative way of
writing out the form of my hypothesis.
I'm saying that h(x) Is 1 over 1 plus
e to the negative theta transpose x.
And all I've do is I've
taken this variable z,
z here is a real number, and
plugged in theta transpose x.
So I end up with theta transpose
x in place of z there.
Lastly, let me show you what
the sigmoid function looks like.
We're gonna plot it on this figure here.
The sigmoid function, g(z), also called
the logistic function, it looks like this.
It starts off near 0 and
then it rises until it crosses 0.5 and
the origin, and
then it flattens out again like so.
So that's what the sigmoid
function looks like.
And you notice that the sigmoid function,
while it asymptotes at one and
asymptotes at zero, as a z axis,
the horizontal axis is z.
As z goes to minus infinity,
g(z) approaches zero.
And as g(z) approaches infinity,
g(z) approaches one.
And so because g(z) upwards
values are between zero and
one, we also have that h(x)
must be between zero and one.
Finally, given this hypothesis
representation, what we need to do,
as before,
is fit the parameters theta to our data.
So given a training set we
need to a pick a value for
the parameters theta and this hypothesis
will then let us make predictions.
We'll talk about a learning algorithm
later for fitting the parameters theta,
but first let's talk a bit about
the interpretation of this model.
Here's how I'm going to interpret
the output of my hypothesis, h(x).
When my hypothesis outputs some number,
I am going to treat that number as
the estimated probability that y is
equal to one on a new input, example x.
Here's what I mean, here's an example.
Let's say we're using the tumor
classification example, so
we may have a feature vector x,
which is this x zero equals one as always.
And then one feature is
the size of the tumor.
Suppose I have a patient come in and
they have some tumor size and
I feed their feature vector
x into my hypothesis.
And suppose my hypothesis
outputs the number 0.7.
I'm going to interpret my
hypothesis as follows.
I'm gonna say that this
hypothesis is telling me that for
a patient with features x,
the probability that y equals 1 is 0.7.
In other words, I'm going to
tell my patient that the tumor,
sadly, has a 70 percent chance, or
a 0.7 chance of being malignant.
To write this out slightly more formally,
or to write this out in math,
I'm going to interpret
my hypothesis output as.
P of y=1 given x parameterized by theta.
So for those of you that are familiar with
probability, this equation may make sense.
If you're a little less
familiar with probability,
then here's how I read this expression.
This is the probability
that y is equal to one.
Given x,
given that my patient has features x, so
given my patient has a particular tumor
size represented by my features x.
And this probability is
parameterized by theta.
So I'm basically going to count
on my hypothesis to give me
estimates of the probability
that y is equal to 1.
Now, since this is a classification task,
we know that y must be either 0 or
1, right?
Those are the only two values
that y could possibly take on,
either in the training set or for new
patients that may walk into my office, or
into the doctor's office in the future.
So given h(x), we can therefore
compute the probability that
y = 0 as well, completely
because y must be either 0 or 1.
We know that the probability of y = 0 plus
the probability of y = 1 must add up to 1.
This first equation looks
a little bit more complicated.
It's basically saying that
probability of y=0 for
a particular patient with features x,
and given our parameters theta.
Plus the probability of y=1 for
that same patient with features x and
given theta parameters
theta must add up to one.
If this equation looks
a little bit complicated,
feel free to mentally imagine
it without that x and theta.
And this is just saying that the product
of y equals zero plus the product of y
equals one, must be equal to one.
And we know this to be true because y
has to be either zero or one, and so
the chance of y equals zero,
plus the chance that y is one.
Those two must add up to one.
And so if you just take this term and
move it to the right hand side,
then you end up with this equation.
That says probability that y equals zero
is 1 minus probability of y equals 1, and
thus if our hypothesis feature
of x gives us that term.
You can therefore quite simply
compute the probability or
compute the estimated probability
that y is equal to 0 as well.
So, you now know what the hypothesis
representation is for
logistic regression and we're seeing
what the mathematical formula is,
defining the hypothesis for
logistic regression.
In the next video, I'd like to
try to give you better intuition
about what the hypothesis
function looks like.
And I wanna tell you about something
called the decision boundary.
And we'll look at some visualizations
together to try to get a better sense of
what this hypothesis function of
logistic regression really looks like.